Previously on Homeland...
CARRIE: My pills--
someone tampered with them.
And what-- you think I did it?
Did you?
No.
She has a history of
mental illness.
I didn't know.
She would have been
on a plane right now, back home,
relieved of her post.
Abdul Zaheer.
Faysal Ahmad.
What Haqqani
wants for Saul.
This is Haqqani's entire
command structure.
You give up these five,
he basically controls
from here to Kabul.
Carrie, it's me.
I'm here.
I will not be a pawn
in this prisoner exchange.
Escape or die-- promise me.
I promise.
CARRIE: We're seeing some
Taliban presence in town.
There are too many of them.
What are you doing?
Too many.
No! I'm here. I'm here.
And I am telling you
it is not hopeless.
There is a way.
So, at the alleyway,
you're gonna take a right.
Okay, okay. I'm in.
Just keep moving.
(crowd clamoring)
Carrie...
You fucking lied to me!
Goddamn you!
Tell Haqqani we'll
meet his demands.
CARRIE:
I betrayed Saul.
How can saving someone's life
be the wrong choice?
Nothing good can happen
in this fucked-up world
that we've made for ourselves.
I need you to do
something for me, Dennis.
It's going to be easy.
CARRIE: You said you had
something to tell me?
The ambassador's husband--
he's working against you.
(indistinct military
radio chatter)
MARTHA: It's Alice
in fucking Wonderland.
(indistinct military
radio chatter)
CARRIE:
Where are you?
QUINN:
I'm at a safe distance.
...clipped an artery.
(Carrie screams)
Hold on.
SAUL:
I know a way.
(speaking Arabic)
ANDREA MITCHELL:
First, the U.S. found
and killed
Osama bin Laden outside...
(crowd clamoring)
CARRIE:
You will die over there!
HILLARY CLINTON: You can't
keep snakes in your backyard
and expect them
only to bite your neighbors.
JOHN KERRY: There are things
that the Pakistanis have done,
as complicated as
the relationship has been.
(indistinct military
radio chatter)
SAUL:
I'm so sorry.
BRODY:
I have to say good-bye now.
CARRIE:
Just for a few more seconds.
WONHAM: Abdul Zaheer,
commander, Paktia province.
Chief recruiter
of suicide bombers
from the madrassas in
Quetta and Rawalpindi.
Faysal Ahmad,
deputy commander,
Khost province.
Overseer of the heroin networks
of southeast Afghanistan.
Hafiz Jan, commander,
Sangin district.
Mustafa Hashmi, logistics
commander, Logar district.
And Amir Wasif, commander,
Wardak district.
Responsible for the attacks
on Karachi airport,
the Kabul Intercontinental Hotel
and the UN Compound.
Sign here.
OFFICER:
All right, let's go.
Quinn just picked up
the Taliban prisoners.
They'll be in Islamabad
in two hours.
Great. I'll tell
the White House.
And you'll warn them
about Haqqani?
You mean him getting five
of his top commanders back
isn't enough bad news?
I'm just saying,
give them a heads-up.
About what?
A theory? That's all
you've got, isn't it?
Haqqani faked his death
long before Saul got
on a plane to Pakistan.
Getting his men back was not
part of the original plan.
It's a bonus.
It's a nightmare,
as is this plan
you want me
to warn everyone about,
even though you don't have
a clue what it is.
I'm working a source.
Right.
Your new best
friend in the ISI.
Aasar Khan saved my life.
Then he risked his own
to give up Dennis Boyd.
But that's all he gave you.
What about who's running
Boyd inside the ISI,
or what they're
cooking up together?
Khan was willing to identify
the breach inside our embassy,
not betray his own people.
Or he's playing you.
Well, we'll know
when we talk to Boyd.
(door opens)
John.
Thanks for this.
I know you got things
to do and places to be.
So, uh, what's up?
I need your advice
on something.
It's a little delicate.
Grab a pew.
First, can we keep this
between us?
Sure.
It's about Sandy Bachman.
What about him?
Well, he was developing
quite a rep for himself
before he was killed.
Generating
some spectacular intel
on Taliban positions
in the tribal areas.
Until he blew up
that wedding anyway.
True.
Plus, his methodology
wasn't exactly kosher.
Turns out he was trading secrets
in exchange for the information.
Jesus.
We were wondering if you might
know something about that.
Me?
He was your friend, Dennis.
He didn't have many.
Did you ever see him meeting
somebody you didn't recognize,
or carrying something out of
the embassy he shouldn't have?
I don't think so.
Not that I can recall anyway.
This is the problem:
the documents that he was
passing to the other side--
they came
from your wife's computer.
Martha's?
I'm afraid so.
You think she gave them to him?
No.
You think I did?
Did you?
(scoffs)
You're kidding, right?
I don't know, Dennis.
Like I said,
Sandy was your friend.
Maybe he convinced you
it was for the war effort.
It wasn't me, John.
You sure?
'Cause if it was,
now's the time to come clean.
It wasn't me, I swear.
Okay.
Well, look, uh...
if you remember anything,
let me know.
I will.
I'll, uh, rack my brain.
And thanks.
Sure.
You hear that?
Thought we had
him for a second.
We may still.
He's making a call.
(dialing slowly)
CARRIE:
Come on.
Do it.
(scoffs)
Damn it.
Now what?
Thing is, our evidence is weak.
If he's smart enough
to know that,
he'll just keep stonewalling us.
So...
one step at a time.
Yeah.
Let him sweat
for a couple hours, then...
then grab him again,
take it to the
next level.
(door opens, closes)
(men speaking quietly in Urdu)
(groans)
(man speaks quietly in Urdu)
What are you doing?
(panting)
(speaks Urdu)
(groans)
Let's go.
Hi.
Tell me we're doing
the right thing.
Right thing's
getting Saul back.
DENNIS: I already told you
I don't know anything.
REDMOND:
Won't be five minutes.
Thanks, John.
Dennis, hi.
Hi.
I'd like you
to look at something.
Do you recognize any of these?
I don't think so.
Should I?
They're the documents
John mentioned to you earlier.
The documents
from your wife's laptop.
The ones you stole for Sandy.
Excuse me?
You heard me.
I didn't steal anything.
You were the only one
at the residence at the time
the documents were downloaded.
We synced up the computer
with your keycard logs.
You want to register
your protest now, Dennis?
Demand a lawyer, wave
the Constitution in my face,
threaten me with the wrath
of your almighty wife?
Or do we just assume all
that crap, and get on with it?
I'm an American citizen,
technically on American soil.
You are a traitor,
and I am the fucking CIA.
(chuckles)
You're not going anywhere
until you tell me who
Sandy's contact was at the ISI.
I have no idea what
you're talking about.
Yes, you do.
Because whoever it is,
is now running you.
And whoever it is
had you break into my apartment
and switch out my meds.
Do you know
what these are?
Phenethylamine.
Otherwise known as 25i.
Twice as potent as LSD.
I had nothing to do with that.
I ended up wandering around
Islamabad
in the middle of the night
with no idea where I was
or what I was doing.
I'm-I'm gonna ask
for that lawyer now.
You poisoned me.
I could have died out there.
You think I'm gonna let you talk
to a lawyer?
Sit the fuck down!
(scoffs)
All right.
Have it your way.
What are you doing?
I'm saying
good night.
You can't just leave me here.
Oh, don't worry.
I'll be back.
(muffled panting)
(men speaking Urdu)
Welcome back
to Islamabad.
I hope your journey
was not uncomfortable.
Now...
by the grace of God,
we will strike the heaviest blow
at the crusaders
who occupy our country.
How long have
they flown
over our homes, bombed
our weddings and funerals,
murdered our women
and children?
We will drive them
from our skies.
We will show their
crimes to the world.
This man,
Saul Berenson, chief of the CIA,
he, by the grace
of God,
will bring us back
our brothers.
They will march
with us to Kabul
and raise the flag of God
over our country again.
(men cheering, shouting)
(speaking Urdu)
(phone ringing)
Hello.
MIRA:
Carrie. It's Mira.
Mira. Hi.
I've spoken to Ambassador Boyd.
She said that it's all happening
tomorrow morning.
Yes.
The White House
has given its blessing.
The other... parties in
the exchange are already here.
By noon tomorrow,
Saul will be back
in the embassy.
You say that the White House
has given its blessing,
but has the CIA?
Wh-What do you mean?
I know that giving up
these people for Saul is a loss.
It's a bad loss. I know
you'll want to turn it around.
Mira...
I know what the CIA's like--
people are expendable,
even its own people.
Mira,
listen to me.
Do not worry.
Lockhart is not running
the exchange tomorrow. I am.
I'm talking about you.
Carrie, you're so good.
You've become so good,
so... professional.
I know it makes Saul proud,
but...
b-before the CIA,
I'm asking you to remember...
just normal life.
And that I love him,
Saul, my husband.
Yes.
And I believe you do, too.
And I am begging you,
don't let him die.
Just don't let him die. Just...
(whimpering softly)
(speaking gently in Urdu)
(whimpering)
Shh...
(clamoring over video)
What's this?
CARRIE:
Know who that is?
That's your friend,
Sandy Bachman.
My God.
Better look quick.
Soon he hasn't got a face.
You think we
behave badly?
This is how the
other side behaves.
These are the people
that you're in bed with.
that you're spying for.
No.
Yes.
Killing a CIA station chief,
that's a big deal, Dennis.
It's a very big deal.
Nobody, not even the ISI,
would do such a thing lightly.
It means they are protecting
another agenda.
It means, almost certainly,
American lives are at stake,
either here or in Afghanistan
or back at home.
Do you understand
what I'm telling you?
I'm not stupid.
Then start fucking talking!
I can't tell you
what I don't know.
You passed state
secrets to Sandy,
you broke into my apartment,
you dosed me
with a powerful hallucinogen--
what else have
you been asked to do?
Nothing.
(sighs)
You say that you understand,
but I don't think that you do.
This is a matter of
national security, Dennis.
You have no idea how much
discretion that gives me.
Wh-What do you mean?
I can call in a
professional interrogator.
I can have you rendered
to a black site.
No, you can't.
We don't do that anymore.
Hmm.
That policy was repudiated.
Publicly it was.
You're bluffing.
I am authorized to
kill U.S. citizens on the
battlefield, you motherfucker.
Don't think I can't do
whatever is required.
Don't think that I won't.
Go to hell.
You know what, Dennis...
(scoffs)
...you just fucked yourself.
Wait, wait, wh-what
are you doing?
What are you doing?
MARTHA: This is my goddamn
embassy. Open the door!
GARY: Ma-Ma'am, sorry.
Ma'am. Ma'am.
Why is he in here?
CARRIE: I'm questioning him.
You're what?
I believe he's involved...
You have no fucking right
to question anyone-- anyone--
in my embassy
without my say-so.
Dennis, come with me.
You are finished here.
Do you understand?
You are finished everywhere.
She accused me of
spying for the ISI.
What?
Apparently, I'm in league with
the people that killed Sandy.
You are?
I am.
(chuckles)
Did she produce any
evidence to support this?
Just threats and accusations.
You sure? Nothing specific?
Nothing.
Why do you ask?
Because it's unlikely they would
have invented something
out of thin air.
You must've had contact
with someone they suspect.
Any idea who
that could be?
No. Not offhand.
What about at
the university?
One of your new students?
A fellow professor?
Honestly, nobody.
Come on, Dennis,
there must be
somebody-- think.
You can tell me.
Even if you're having
an affair, you can tell me.
I'm not having
an affair! Jesus!
Okay. Okay.
I'm just trying to help.
Listen, I got to deal
with this Saul business.
Go. Go.
I'll be fine.
Stay here.
Don't talk to anyone.
And if Mathison
tries anything again...
I'll call you.
Do that.
(door opens, closes)
(elevator bell dings)
He denies everything.
Fuck!
What did he say?
Nada. Zip.
It's like he knew
I was playing him.
Got to admit, part of me was
impressed he didn't fall for it.
It's a hell of a time for
him to discover a backbone.
Isn't it?
I'll keep trying.
Excuse me. Briefing for the
exchange starts in 40 minutes.
Vehicles on standby.
We got to go.
Bring Saul home.
Nothing out of Dennis?
Well, let's just concentrate
on getting Saul back...
I want you
to stay here.
No.
Quinn...
No, I need to be
at the exchange.
I'll have Special Forces,
two security details;
I'll be fine.
I called in a Global Hawk
from Bagram.
It'll be at 45,000 feet
in overwatch,
but I need you in the ops room
monitoring it.
What am I looking for?
(sighs)
Anything the ISI
or Haqqani might try.
Maybe getting their guys
back and keeping Saul.
Maybe even killing Saul.
You think
that's likely?
Don't know.
But I know there's
something else going on.
I'll keep my eyes open.
(boy speaking Urdu)
Tea.
Very good.
(sighs)
Sir...
Mr. Boyd,
you need to stop.
(car alarm chirps)
I'm sorry.
You can't leave the house.
What do you mean,
I can't?
For your own safety, sir.
I've got to get to my office.
I've got to pick up some papers.
I'll be 20 minutes.
I can't let you do that.
(sighs)
Well, then come with me, man.
I need these papers,
I've work to do.
I-I just can't sit around
this house all day...
MARTHA:
Thank you, Sergeant.
What is this?
I can't even go to my office?
Why do you need to go there?
Why do you think?
I have essays to mark.
I don't believe you.
What's in the bag?
Nothing. Papers.
Show me.
Don't be ridiculous.
Sergeant.
Ma'am?
Give me Mr. Boyd's bag.
Are you kidding me?
Come on, just...
Come...
(scoffs) Clothes,
passport, money.
Really?
Tell me what you're involved in,
or I will have you locked up.
I'm involved in nothing,
I've done nothing.
Dennis...
please stop lying.
I'm not lying.
Take Mr. Boyd
to the guardroom.
Hold him there.
No phone calls, no visitors,
no communication with anyone.
Martha, Martha, don't do this.
Let's go, sir.
Don't do this, Martha!
Ms. Mathison.
Morning, General.
My deputy, John Redmond.
Captain Franzen, who's in
charge of the prisoner escort.
Director Lockhart
isn't with you?
Why should he be?
Is he not interested in the
safe return of Mr. Berenson?
Mr. Berenson was taken
from an area controlled
by the ISI, just like this.
Is that why you brought
your private army?
Shall we get on with it?
Excuse me.
This is where we are.
And here--
this area of the tarmac--
is where the exchange
will happen.
And as you requested,
it has clear lines of sight
and is not overlooked
by any building.
Where will your side be?
This hangar will be
our staging point; we will be
in clear view outside of it.
The CIA position
is here.
How will Mr. Berenson be
delivered to the exchange?
When we see the Taliban
prisoners and have
confirmed their identities,
we will contact
Haqqani's representatives.
They will then
deliver Mr. Berenson
to the point of exchange.
What assurance do we
have that Haqqani won't
attempt to overrun the site
once the prisoners arrive?
BUNNY:
The Pakistani army
controls this site,
not Mr. Haqqani.
It's Lockhart.
Mm-hmm.
Sir?
REDMOND: What about
the exchange itself?
TASNEEM: Haqqani's men
will leave Mr. Berenson here
(phone vibrating)
in plain sight, then withdraw.
You will release
the prisoners, who will walk to
the same point, unaccompanied.
What is it?
This doesn't feel right.
Once they are parallel
with Mr. Berenson...
What do you mean?
...both parties will cross
to their own side.
We're really exposed out here.
I heard the location met all the
specifications your side gave.
You heard?
You mean you didn't know?
I was shut out of the planning.
Is that unusual?
You could say so.
Aasar, is there
something going on?
Some kind of
double-cross?
BUNNY: No drone
or UAV will fly over...
For God's sake, tell me.
BUNNY: If we see one
or hear one,
or hear of one,
Mr. Berenson will
not be returned.
REDMOND: And neither
will the prisoners.
But assuming a
successful handover,
may I remind you
of your agreement
that the prisoners,
once exchanged,
Mm-hmm.
will remain within
Pakistani military custody.
This was the preeminent
condition that the White House
and Director Lockhart
had agreed to.
Yeah.
Okay, will do.
Yes, of course. We do not
want to see these people
on the street
any more than you do.
Is there anything else,
Mr. Redmond?
REDMOND: If there is, we all
have radios, the frequencies
are set and secure.
Let's get on with it.
I agree.
(panting)
(speaks Urdu)
(grunts)
No.
Fucking no.
Why don't you put it on?
Why don't you,
you fucking coward?
He is happy to wear it,
Mr. Berenson, because...
one year ago, when you were
director of the CIA,
a drone killed
his father and brother.
He is happy to wear it.
(indistinct military
radio chatter)
HENSLEIGH:
Peter.
Prisoners are on approach.
Show's about to begin.
Here we go.
(indistinct military
radio chatter continues)
Bring them out.
Quinn, do you
see anything?
No, you're all clear.
Your prisoners are here.
We see them.
Now we want to see Saul.
(speaks Urdu)
Quinn?
Perimeter's still clear.
What are they
waiting for?
(grunts, speaks Urdu)
(man shouts)
(grunting)
(panting)
Let's go.
You see Saul Berenson.
Let the prisoners go.
CARRIE: Not until
those men pull back.
They get in the van
and drive away
or the prisoners
stay right here.
REDMOND:
Who the fuck is that?
They left a kid behind.
What's the boy
doing there?
I don't know.
He has to leave, too.
Bomb vest.
Jesus.
Watch the prisoners.
FRANZEN: Get them on
the ground!
(speaking Urdu)
What the fuck is this--
a suicide vest?
We didn't know. Obviously,
Haqqani doesn't trust you.
You tell Haqqani
anything happens to Saul,
we execute the prisoners,
right here,
right now--
tell him.
Who's got
the detonator?
Quinn, kid with the
bomb vest next to Saul.
Find the detonator.
Could be anywhere.
Everyone has a damn cell phone.
The boy is insurance.
As soon as the prisoners are
free, he will leave with them.
What guarantees
do we have?
Haqqani will not
kill his own men.
That is your guarantee.
But you need to do this now.
Now!
Okay.
Walk the prisoners.
(soldier speaking Urdu)
(panting)
(soldier speaks Urdu)
Saul, don't.
What's he doing?
Stop the prisoners.
Stop the prisoners!
Halt!
What the hell
is Berenson doing?
Come on.
(speaking Urdu)
Maybe he doesn't
trust the boy.
The boy's not the problem,
Berenson is.
Berenson!
You stand up!
You stand up
or I'll do it!
Go on, then!
Do it!
Fucking do it!
I'll send my men,
they'll get him to his feet.
No. You send soldiers,
Haqqani will blow the bomb.
I'll do it!
You stand up,
Berenson!
I will do it!
I will blow us all away!
SAUL:
Blow them to fucking hell!
Blow them to goddamn
fucking hell!
Berenson!
Please, God!
Please, God,
blow them to hell.
I'll go.
SAUL:
Blow them to fucking hell.
Okay. Just you.
You stand up, Berenson!
(boy praying quietly)
I can't do it.
I will do it!
I will blow us all away!
You stand up now!
What is she doing?
She's trying
to keep this thing alive.
Saul? Saul, it's me.
(turns off radio)
Saul, you got to move.
Hey.
You need to move.
I want you to
come with me.
No.
Saul...
What?
I promised Mira I was
bringing you home.
You think I want to go home?
You said this wouldn't happen,
you promised me no exchange.
I couldn't let you die.
It wasn't up to you.
It wasn't your call.
You think I can live with this?
I can't even look at it.
Saul, listen to me...
No, you listen.
Do not give them
those prisoners.
Do not give them one prisoner.
Just go.
Go.
I'm not leaving
without you.
Then we both die here.
Both?
What about the boy?
What about him?
He said his prayers, he thinks
he's going to fucking Heaven.
He's a child.
They put the vest
on him, not us.
So that makes it okay?
Do you know who
you sound like?
Them.
14 years of war, and
this is what it's come to?
Asking a child to blow
you to kingdom come?
And for what?
(voice breaking):
For fucking what?!
This is not who we are.
This is not
who you are.
Please. Please.
(crying):
Please, Saul.
Just get up, get up.
Goddamn it.
(crying):
Goddamn it, get up. Get up.
Please.
(sighs)
No more dying.
I want to go home.
Come on.
John?
With you.
We're ready.
Send the prisoners.
(soldier shouts in Urdu)
(indistinct military
radio chatter)
(crying quietly)
(man speaking Urdu)
(speaking Urdu)
I'll be outside, ma'am.
Thank you.
(door closes, buzzes)
The prisoner exchange worked.
A few hairy moments,
but Saul Berenson is now
on his way back to the embassy.
(sighs)
That's good.
How did we end up here?
Martha, listen to me.
Yes?
You know this is all
the fault of the CIA.
Ever since that wedding was
bombed, it's been the CIA.
Don't...
They are responsible.
They have no
evidence against me.
They're making all
this stuff up.
Stop.
(phone ringing)
Yeah?
Okay. Hang on.
It's Mira.
(sighs)
It's me.
(rocket whooshing)
MAN: What's up?
We got something going on.
(indistinct radio communication)
What was that?
Sounded like RPGs.
LOCKHART:
Get Quinn
and contact Carrie Mathison.
Sir, over here.
Embassy security cameras.
Where is that?
I-9.
On the route Mr. Berenson's
convoy's taking.
Sir, there's no
answer from Carrie.
Comms are down.
Convoy must have been hit.
What the fuck?!
What the fucking fuck?!
How far is that?
About four blocks.
Deploy the Marines.
Get them out of the embassy and
to the blast site right away.
Go!
Sergeant!
(banging on door)
What's happening?
Mr. Berenson's
convoy's been hit.
Oh, my God.
The Marines have
left the embassy.
Mr. Lockhart's orders.
MARTHA: Where is Lockhart?
CIA ops room, ma'am.
DENNIS:
Martha, what's going on?
Some kind of ambush.
Where?
Out on the streets.
I have to go.
Wait.
Where have the
Marines gone?
To give assistance.
All of them?
Why not?
Dennis, why not?
That's what
she wanted to know.
Who?
Tasneem.
Tasneem is your contact?
What did she want to know?
Tell me.
How Carrie Mathison got
in and out of the embassy.
What did you tell her?
About the tunnel
under the embassy.
Captioned by Media Access
Group at WGBH